how to craft a B2B website that really
is your best salesperson building trust
and driving inbound leads Around the
[Music]
Clock hey I'm Sam Dunning founder over
at breaking bb.com in this episode we're
going to dive deep into exactly how you
can craft a B2B website that attracts
builds trust with educates qualifies and
convert dream clients into a steady flow
of leads demos signups or pipeline for
your B2B company we also share some SEO
best practices and unusual ideas this is
taken from my recent show on the Dave
podcast let's dive into it before we go
deep into the website and SEO strategies
let's just look at it uh from a distance
first so uh you know when we talk about
the marketing landscape it has
undoubtedly at a Breakneck Pace in the
recent years and uh there have been
heated debates around inbound versus
outbound marketing and then people have
taken sides on which one's here to stay
and or which one's more uh effective so
uh what's your perspective on this
Sam I'm one of those sick SEO inbound
people that actually believes very much
in outbound is alive inbound is alive
demand gen is alive I'm very much of the
mindset because I love to run
experiments as a Founder I've got the
freedom to almost run any kind of
marketing campaign I want as long as I
can physically do it with my own Sweat
Equity or invest in it so I'm in quite a
fortunate space in that that mindset so
I've triled loads of stuff myself and
I'm very much of the belief that if your
prospects are receptive to the channel
doesn't matter what the channel is if
they're receptive to it and they respond
to it then it can work so as an example
of course I'm a preacher of SEO and
content marketing because that's what my
agency does for B2B and SAS but I've ran
all kinds of weird experiments I've ran
outbound cold cool campaigns
specifically to CMOS and VPS at fast
growth tech companies loads of people
say on LinkedIn that it doesn't work it
does in fact those folks are very
receptive cold calls many times because
they get so few of them um and then
likewise I've I've done a bunch of
demand gen done a bunch of weird inbound
marketing experiment
too so quite often it's are your
prospects hanging out or available do
they have mental availability within
that channel if they do it can
work if not it can't but the thing is we
can dive into some of this stuff as well
a lot of it's an
ecosystem so if someone is more familiar
with your brand I you've built up demand
through demand generation or demand
creation or they've seen you flash up a
lot in the Google search results through
inbound and then you reach out to them
cold be it LinkedIn be it cold cool be a
cold email they're going to be a bit
more receptive to it subliminally
because they've seen your brand they've
heard the problems you fix and all that
kind of good stuff so I'm one of those
weird inbound marketers that actually
very much believes in an allbound
strategy as I believe they all
complement each other when taken with
the right approach and and when you peel
back the layers and take the time to
understand where your dream clients are
actually hanging
out um actually it's amusing because I
often find people in my conversations
yearning for a definitive winner uh you
know in the inbound versus outbound
marketing duel uh now reality I agree
with you is that both methodologies have
their own merits uh inbound excels at
long-term nurturing and building trust
uh outbound can yield Swift results when
the targeting is um highly uh effective
and the strategy is correct now um
marketers love love new buzzwords so now
this there's this new terminology called
allbound
uh which essentially represents a hybrid
approach so uh what's your take on this
terminology and do you think this
terminology makes any
sense I do in fact we had someone on on
my podcast recently actually to talk
about a similar yes kind of term and I'm
all for it really it's it's like a I
mean often where us marketers go wrong
is we we try to spread ourselves too
thin especially in the tech world like
marketing teams are often quite small
unless we get to kind of mid-market and
Enterprise level companies the kind of
tons of marketers on the team but then
of course there's a lot more red tape
I'm used to working with kind of small
marketing teams of two three similar
well they've got to get super Scrappy so
sometimes it is an easy mistake to
spread yourself too thin in the sense
that you're trying to do all these
channels and as a result the amount of
content you put out is perhaps limited
on each Channel and maybe not the best
quality not really resonating with your
target clients aka the folks you want to
build trust in you and buy your stuff so
yeah I'm very much of an allbound but a
lot of it comes back to the fundamentals
so doing Prospect doing customer
research really taking the time
to understand where they get their
trusted information and those instant
no-brainer channels so are your
prospects going to Google search are
they hanging out on LinkedIn are they at
trade events do they maybe hang out in
slack communities or or go to somewhere
else once you can get those three four
main pillars and kind of start working
off that if you're yes by all means if
you're nailing those three or four
fundamental channels that your prospects
are really receptive to and that they
trust brilliant go for go for allbound
start firing up an outbound campaign
start doing extra additional channels
but I think all bound's great in theory
by all means try and be everywhere that
your prospects are but at the same time
be realistic but if you're trying to do
all these channels and spread your te
yourself or your team super thin youve
got to be a bit mindful that you're
probably not going to have the impact
that you might want so it's getting The
Best of Both Worlds
really true um so you know while I was
reading up and researching for our
conversation today I even came across a
data that said you know there's a recent
uh HubSpot study that revealed the
companies employing allbound marketing
strategies witness a 20% uptick and Lead
conversion rates compared to those that
just rely on one method now of course it
has too many writers attached and like
you said it shouldn't be that you uh you
know uh basically just exhaust all your
resources and you're not doing one thing
correctly uh but um the essense of
allbound of course is to draw in
prospects with valuable content while
simultaneously uh being proactive in
reaching out to decision makers uh it's
about of course fostering relationships
uh creating comprehensive engaging in
experience uh for your target audience
so very much in line with what you just
said um now it's time for us to just
dive into the specifics um at Dave of
course we firmly believe in the
effectiveness of time tested B2B
marketing strategies what are some of
your tried and tested true tactics that
you definitely rely on when it comes to
the B2B
um side of things yeah yeah yeah I mean
I can I can share what we do ourselves
and share what we're doing for some
clients and share personally what I do
for for my brand breaking B2B so I I'm
naturally going to be biased as as I
provide SEO to B2B and SAS companies so
SEO is is kind of our main one when it
comes tactically
speaking why well I suppose because I've
been messing around with websites and
organic search for 11 12 maybe even 13
years it's just what I know and I've
been through the pain myself as a as a
as a solo founder I've been through the
pain of dealing with tons of terrible
leads that come whether that's from my
own self-generation whether that's from
marketing whether that's from ads and
I've been through the time wasting of
kind of cooling up these leads or
scheduling zooms with these leads and
then just not being fruitful or
resulting in a a solid sales
conversation so having been through the
hardships I've learned kind of what
works and what doesn't when it comes to
driving inbound opportunities so I mean
SEO is great but it's got to have a a
targeted approach
AKA so so many SEO mistakes perhaps we
can chat about a bit where kind of folks
go for two top top funnel terms or two
broad terms and as as a result they're
driving traffic to their website but
it's not targeted so it's not Niche
enough to the actual kind of Target
prospects they actually want to engage
with AKA the people that have the
problem they fix appreciate the impact
of of not fixing it and actually have
the cash and desire to invest in the
offer so getting really specific with
that with your SEO campaign is is
something that a lot neglect so that's
something we do kind of make sure we're
drilling down to the folks that are most
likely to have an appetite for our
offerings so that that's a big part of
our strategy and likewise for
clients and then I suppose the website
itself is the foundation of everything
so actually having a website that's
truly your best salesperson and the fact
and the fact that it's it's built on
solid customer research so a big thing
when it comes to B2B websites is so many
teams actually neglect do Prospect or
customer research so basically guessing
what they think is going to look good or
sound good or resonate with Target
clients especially on messaging and copy
for their website homepage so I mean I
don't know about yourself Shu but how
many times have I been on perhaps a
technology website or SAS website and
I've read their headline and it's been
something like we're an all-in-one
Revenue
generating 100x platform for Wizardry to
Turbo Drive your revenues today and I've
read the headline and I've SC scroll
down probably past the hero area scroll
down two3 down the homepage and I'm
still not actually sure what they do
yeah how it's going to help me or the
problem that they're going to solve for
me and if I'm if I'm finding them
perhaps for an ad or for a fur or
through social wherever I I stumble upon
them and like I'm unclear as to what
they do I'd imagine a lot of their
target prospects are the same so I'm
just going to bounce off and and head to
a competitor that's a lot clearer and
crisper with their messaging and really
shares what they do so so having a
website that kind of tracks resonates
clearly shares what you do why you
problem you solve shares kind of proof
of results
pricing ideally you offer an action it's
like a live demo or at least screenshots
or walk through videos or similar um
answers common
questions shares proof of impact that
you've had for clients and then makes it
super easy for folks to book schedule
that time with a sales expert or an
engineer through some kind of calend
tool is just just table Stakes now on
B2B yet still many B2B folks just kind
of work their website off guess work or
what the exec team think looks good or
maybe what their VCS are telling them to
do from the funding side so as a result
it's just not resonating properly with
prospects and when you don't resonate
with kind of problems desires goals
motivations of Target clients you just
ain't going to convert at the levels you
want to be combating at um so those two
fundamental ones and then I suppose a
big one for for myself and breaking B2B
is is
LinkedIn so
I'm I was waiting for that I'm posting
all kinds of crazy stuff on LinkedIn so
again i' I've got the freedom to do this
being a Founder so I'll post anything
from skits to long form posts to howt
but a lot of my strategy on LinkedIn
these days is grab someone's attention
first so in this case it might be making
myself into a com meme sticking my head
on there and then maybe it's me digging
out a grave and then people watching me
saying SEO is dead and then it's me with
a shovel saying this is me grabbing
inbound leads from my clients like
shoveling out something stupid that
catches the attention but then I'll mix
that with like a long form text post
where I'll break down like the exact
strategies we're using for clients step
by step to kind of rank on Google and
build pages that that convert um or
already do kind of experiments as well
on LinkedIn so some of our series have
been things like asking the public B2B
marketing questions where I just grab my
portable microphone go out with my
videographer F friend and go to local
towns and cities and ask folks like what
do you think SEO is or what do you think
an mql is or what is the point of
LinkedIn just to to get funny funny
reactions I've seen similar in b2c and I
thought it' be quite fun to try and be
to beat um yeah and aside from that most
of my time on on LinkedIn cont content
is either kind of standing out doing
something a bit different and then also
educating of course to sharing the
strategies we use for for clients so
builds a bit of trust builds a bit of
proof um so those are three core
fundamental channels but then I also
have as you touched on the podcast
breaking B2B right so a bit like this I
think we're roughly 403 episodes in four
years in so I've been doing it a little
while and that is a solid way to get
pillar con content in the sense that
each week I either do a guest episode
every Monday so I'll interview a bit
like this uh a marketing leader and I'll
just get them to Deep dive into one
strategy that's working really well for
them and then we'll break that down for
the audience step by step with actional
tips or I'll do a solo episode and that
could be a weird SEO strategy it could
be one of the experiments I'm running at
breaking B2B and how that fared whether
it was good whether it was bad whether
it was messy called calling called email
weird SEO ranking strategy whatever um
and that's the format really and that
gives us a long form episode every
Monday that we put out and then also
like like yourself snip that up into
video clips and post on the website and
post on LinkedIn and such so th those
are the core ones but then I also run
experiments so I'll like I was saying
earlier we'll try out a bit unusual cold
email campaigns we've tried cold cool
campaigns we do some of the funny
unusual videos series and I suppose one
of the other fundamentals is we do quite
a lot of
Partnerships Partnerships in the sense
that this is really good for any B2B
company finding folks that are going
after the same ICP the same old client
profile as you but in non-competitive
Industries so for example I I partner
with a company called impactable you
might have seen the founder Justin row
talking about LinkedIn ads on LinkedIn
and essentially anytime someone needs
LinkedIn ads I'll send them their way
and anytime someone needs SEO they'll
send them my way and but it's not just
for passing business each way we also
create content together we've built
backlinks together we've we've built
articles on each other's websites we've
created podcasts and stuff so these kind
of relationships are a really good way
to kind of strike up conversations with
with folks that are going after simmer
clients send business each way each
other's way build content together and
also get some SEO bang for buck by kind
of building links building decent media
and all that good stuff so I'll take a
breath there as I know I've shared a few
but I'm happy to go deeper on any of
those uh that was that was very very
insightful the good part is that you've
also kind of broken it down each but we
we'll Deep dive a little more into each
of these especially the website and the
seops as we go along I think one of the
key strategies that we at da we also
employ is um uh you know merging data
driven insights with highly targeted
messaging so when you talk about email
messaging or uh you know even LinkedIn
Outreach and stuff uh eventually it's
just not merely just sending out content
or generating content and pushing it out
it's it's about ensuring that these
touch points reach the Right audience at
the right moment that moment is also
very important which which pretty much
is what the whole um sales intelligence
piece or the data intelligence is what
throws at you and uh you know when it
comes to understanding needs uh website
often serves as the first impression uh
a prospect has with your company now Sam
you're of course known for crafting High
conversion websites and So based on your
experience what are some of the major
pitfalls marketers encounter when
they're designing the
websites pretty much the opposite of
what I said just now so yeah I mean it's
it's it's ego and guesswork those are
probably the two killers of websites and
also pleasing the
management exactly exactly so and that
could be higher up that could be exact
ego or it could be funding VC zego or
whatever it may be and and that can be
good for certain levels and that
sometimes in certain businesses you have
to play by those
rules but the problem is when a Target
client might land on your website and
might read something like we've just
raised 100 million F 100 million round
funding or we're the number one tool in
this category for doing this we're the
best ever or something like that it's
like best to who like there's so many
technology B2B websites in General on
the headline that just says we're the
best like where's the proof why should I
believe you like why are you um and that
that's what happens often as a result as
B2B exacts or similar kind of a going
building out their content their
messaging strategy based on kind of
their own personal beliefs or what they
think think it's going to be look good
sound good look cool when as I touched
on a little bit earlier the the Crux and
the fundamentals of of where websites go
wrong is they just completely neglect
custom research or they did it but it's
about five 10 years out of date and
there's a really useful exercise that
I'd encourage folks to do if you've got
access to it and that is to
grab ideally five to 10 but I think the
sweet spots about eight of recently won
customers so recently onboarded client
and the reason you want recently won
ones is they're going to have less of a
bias to you because if you interview
kind of established customers they're
going to love you they're not going to
say anything wrong um and the reason you
want recently W clients is so you can
this is good not just for the website
but for General B2B marketing and
messaging knoow is you can ask them
questions like understanding the problem
they facing like what what was the
problem or frustration that you you were
facing that made you realize that you
had to do something about it
and once you in once you lean into that
you could say well what was the Tipping
Point where that that issue was getting
so annoying that you then realized that
you had to actually do something about
it now and let's let's pretend maybe
you're a CRM software provider maybe it
was we're doing stuff manually in
spreadsheets and we're trying to input
all the data from our finance team to
our sales team and we we're burning like
two hours every day and as a result
staff started to churn because they got
so frustrated to with this process and
they started to move over to competitors
not only that but they were losing time
we were losing cash flow because we
could process invoices quick enough and
all this kind of stuff and once you kind
of learn that and you learn common
problems that uh fluent throughout
prospects you can start to dive into
what's actually useful for your
messaging not just for your website but
for your ads so questions like that like
also things like what made you choose us
over other competitors like what was
what was that kind of main offering that
stood out to you or what was the main
things that stood out to you and also
what were the top two or three
competitors you evaluating when you
chose us um so those kind of things are
useful and then also things like what's
important to you specifically to a
website like what's most important to
you when evaluating a website in our
sector and like as an example I've
because I've interviewed now maybe 43
B2B marketers on breaking
B2B I I ask most marketers that come on
that question like what's most important
and from that they've said kind of
knowing what you do how you help and why
you I want to see some results I want to
see your offer an action or a demo of
some sort I want to see pricing then
I'll make it I want it easy for me to
get in touch and those those five things
are just table Stakes that I've learned
for for B2B sites but knowing what's the
nuances of your specific offering so
maybe you're in I don't know something
outside of SAS like engineering or
whatever it may be in B2B so knowing
what those buyers care about seeing and
then also questions like what do you
feel is missing on our existing website
is a really good one and they might say
well your case studies WR thin or you're
not actually sharing the price so I've
got to get in touch to learn it or I'd
love to see the under the Bonnet of your
products I'd love to see some kind of
live demo or basic walkthrough before I
speak to a salesperson or I found that
you didn't really address some of my
questions so I ended up wasting 30
minutes on a sales cool when I really
wanted to know that beforehand so that
that's that's useful so those kind of
questions and then if you can interview
seven eight recently won
customers and record those those
sessions you'll start to notice trans um
patterns in their answers so you'll see
like the same things come up three or
four times and those are the ones you
want to note down and of course you can
use an AI tool like fathom or whatever
it may be to to help you with that and
when you get the patterns that's when
you you know that that's something you
got to use and that might be this is the
problem that keeps coming up this is why
folks choose us this is why they decided
to use us as opposed to a competive
this is what they feels missing on our
website and then from that you can layer
that into your messaging so this is the
real problem we fix this is the impact
it has on someone's business this is why
they choose us and now that's going to
be Gold Dust for things like your
website homepage headline your USPS the
benefits you provide because rather than
than just saying like we're the best in
class for this tool on your homepage
you're actually saying like you could
resonate specifically with that problem
like struggling with X like this is this
is this is what we do to to to fix why
and this is why us that's literally how
I made my headline um B2B SEO and
websites Revenue not vanity because most
prospects come to us frustrated that
they're working with an agency and
they're driving traffic but it's not
converting so it just made sense like if
you can label that problem into a
headline that's crisp and specific and
shares Yu super useful um yeah yeah
super useful that so that's one of the
most that's one of the biggest mistakes
on website skipping customer research
and another one is pushing quote unquote
leads at all costs so that's like using
tactics like getting gating all the main
assets on your website that folks want
to see before they're ready to speak to
a sales person so maybe you're getting
pricing you're getting case studies
you're getting a demo basically all
those juicy assets that people want to
see first before they're they're ready
to speak to a salesperson is is kind of
another one um so th those are probably
some of the the biggest biggest peeves
and part of that is just being a bit
more transparent with your website and
the thing is like sometimes you've got
to put yourself into a prospect shoes
imagine imagine you had a problem like
imagine if we go back to CR example so
imagine you were working with some kind
of basic tool or basic spreadsheet
whatever and it was really frustrating
and it was costing you like time every
week it was maybe costing you headcount
as a result C Le you leaking revenue and
you thought well I need to fix this CRM
it's like I must have
but I'm going on to vendor websites and
I can't actually see their tool I can't
see their pricing I can't see what they
do I can't answer my questions
everything is forcing me to speak to a
salesp person before I have that
information if it was me I would just
skip to a competitor that's more
transparent and I'd imagine if you're
doing the same a lot of your B2B
prospects are probably going to be in a
similar boat so and you if you do
customer research if you take that time
to then understand those points and then
weave that into your website messaging
in design you're just going to be so
much further ahead of your
competitors
right you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategy IES
and websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results pricing or to book a cool with
me um I think I'll just add one more uh
bitf there based on my experience and
conversation with so many marketers I
think uh uh prioritizing uh competition
research over customer research uh what
that leads to is that you end up
creating me to web sites um you just
hope and believe that somebody doing a
better job than you out there uh has
done all the parts and has answered all
the tough questions and you don't need
to repeat that's more like cheating in
examination so uh you know you you just
use that as a base and then you just
build something on it you change the
words but eventually uh there's so many
uh you know at least has websites out
there that you go out look for uh they
they are pretty much saying the same
thing and then as a prospect you wonder
who's different and why are they
different so uh I think I would probably
rank that at one and of course what
you've called out are definite
requirements for marketers to look at
because if you do not answer hard
questions if you do not know your
prospect and if you really can't
uh if you really don't know uh your
differentiator then the website's not a
going to solve any problem uh and then
of course the quality of leads will
remain a challenge do you agree with
that Sam oh yeah yeah yeah it's an easy
trap to to Fool in isn't it kind of like
you mentioned there looking at your
competitors and and automatically
assuming that that's something I'm
guilty of certainly have been guilty of
in in past years just assuming that
because they're a competitor and they
they appear to be doing well therefore
their website must be like this
awesome inbound engine and quite often
when you then get to speak to the
marketers behind that you'll find out
that it's struggling to drive Pipeline
and that the leads maybe that are coming
through are just unqualified and all
this kind of stuff so yeah if you can do
customer research is going to be a
superpow for you and I suppose the other
thing is to to think of your website as
a living organism and likewise to think
of customer research is an ongoing
feedback loop so it's not really a one
and done it's something you should make
note to do every every few months and
likewise Co if you're constantly taking
feedback of your on your website and
testing things and seeing what works
what doesn't then you can constantly
kind of make those small shifts on your
site that's going to see those
incremental improvements over time and
the only time I'd say to ignore my
advice completely is if you're a
bootstrap founder and you just need a
webs set up quickly completely ignore me
just put something basic up that looks
professional has your homepage has your
results has your pricing yeah it's easy
to get in touch like four or five pages
just do that to start with and focus on
driving Revenue ignore everything else
I've said if you're brand new and you're
boost
TR excellent points um and of course if
I have to become a little more specific
over here and my next question is more
about uh you know how do you drive an
action so what are some of the creative
and effective strategies for
implementing call to action um cdas on
your website what are the best practices
there because sometimes uh you see these
websites that are overloaded with ctas
or taking you in different directions
basically thinking that okay a prospect
has just landed let me just bombard them
with everything that's out there on my
uh website and take them to different
places and uh you know
uh put all the strategies uh out there
in one place uh for the prospect to also
get uh confused and then just walk off
so uh what according to you are those
time tested strategies and your CTS
IES yeah my main word for those would be
relevancy so for example on your
homepage relevancy and consistency
really of cool to actions so for example
most SAS sites is book a
demo or some now are moving into a mix
of book a demo as well as take a tour so
some folks that have got some kind of
live demo that you can trial with the
take a tour and then maybe halfway
through it cuts off then you have to
book a full demo or put in your contact
information if you want to see the full
thing but yeah the main thing is keep
them consistent so if you've got like on
one page book a demo and on another page
it's book a cool and next page it's talk
to sales and next time it's fill inquiry
form or something like that that's a
little bit confusing so I probably stick
to one core one and typically that book
of demo or that book of call is going to
be stuck in the top right of your menu
nav it's probably going to be a standout
color and as you scroll that menu
Topline menu menu nav is going to be
fixed to your page so no matter where
you are on the on the website that menu
nav is stuck there along with the cool
to action so you can easily access it
for both mobile view and desktop view um
and then just I mean standard things
like on your homepage hero probably just
having one main fix cool to action for
book a demo or maybe you've got another
one that's like view a live tour
underneath or if you're service based
like view our results something like
that to stick into one or two main
ctas and then likewise as you scroll
maybe below the fold maybe having one
more that's either kind of view view
client case studies because typically at
just as you go below the fold you've got
kind of we've worked with these logos or
we work with kind of 10,000 other
companies like yours and then you've got
the logo bar then you've probably got
below the fold like are you struggling
with these three problems then below
that you've probably got these are the
three solutions that hit that problem
then maybe you've got these are the icps
that we help and then maybe you've got
kind of a a CTA to view case studies or
or link through to the the book of demo
book of cool so most of it is making it
relevant to the content that's there but
also keeping it consistent and then I
suppose another issue I see is on blog
articles so for example on blogs like if
they're top of funnel information blogs
like how to do something or what is
something all those kind of kind of
information based queries that you
you're then reading an article that's
yeah fine it might be it might have some
product value so it might say this is
one way of doing it or you could then
address this problem by investing in our
offer but because they're quite top of
funnel kind of information based
searches like how to do something what
is the best way to do this it's probably
that person if they found you through a
Google search trying to fix that problem
they're probably not ready for a demo
just yet so a more relevant call to
action might be grabbing a lead magnet
um or checking out the podcast that's
maybe got more content on the subject or
going into the YouTube channel or maybe
signing up to the email list that where
I get one tip that specifically tackles
this area every week um so tailoring
that
CTA uh that's that's going to be
relevant to what the content they're
consuming and then likewise if they're
on a bottom of funnel article like maybe
they're searching for competitor
Alternatives or they're searching for
the
best back to CRM like best CRM for for
sales folks or something like that and
they've come on to your article and it's
a listicle like a product listal the top
10 CRM for B2B sales people and they see
your position top then yeah by all means
have a call to action for book a demo
because that that prospect's got a lot
more sales and Commercial intent so a
lot of the time it's kind of figuring
out where your prospect is in the
journey and making sure the CTA is
relevant and also it's going to benefit
your business because if you're sticking
book a demo and book a call on
everything and it's it's kind of real
information based content it's like it's
not going to work so you might as well
just tailor something that's relevant to
where they are in their Journey or
that's going to be helpful to them and
then you're more like likely to keep
them in your ecosystem so they might
check out your podcast check out your
YouTube channel sign up to your email
consume your content you can always
retarget them and then when they're
ready you can stay top of
mind um yeah those those are the main
ones and let's not forget people aren't
stupid they know how to book a demo so
if if you've got it fixed in your main
menu and it's easy to access like people
know how to speak to S person if yeah
yeah they don't have to be reminded
after every you don't need like a all
singing or dancing flashing message
Burger demo
today do to yeah right so IID advice
there Sam um now moving on to search
engine optimization or SEO how we call
it uh often often it is uh I think the
neglected we spoke about this earlier as
well and so marketeers are so engrossed
in paid ads and outbound strategies that
they Overlook the immense value of
organic traffic and more so this
pressure is uh built on you know
creating overnight returns from all the
Investments so you know the whole focus
goes on LinkedIn ads paid ads Google ads
all of that and you know how are you
able to generate quick returns now how
can we bridge this Gap and transform SEO
into the chief Revenue officers Li the
cro doesn't really in many ways does not
feel that SEO is here to give any return
sometimes those in SEO Investments
whether those are man Manpower
Investments or any uh uh inorganic
Investments I even overlooked thinking
that it's just for me to drive website
traffic for my brand to be known but
it's not really helping me generate
business or add to my Revenue goals so
how do we bridge that Gap um you know
what are your time tested strategies
there yeah I suppose that one of the
hardest parts of SEO tactics as side is
what you touched on there getting
leadership buying whether that's with
your cro your CMO or other folks in the
leadership team that from my experience
is the toughest part of SEO actually
getting the Buy in there and I suppose
if you're in a scenario that you
outlined just now I.E you're already
investing in paid media perhaps you're
already doing the common suspects like
review sites like G2 cap teror whatever
they may be maybe doing some LinkedIn
ads maybe you're doing some Google paid
search so some Google AdWords I suppose
the advantage you'd have in that sense
is that if you do doing Google AdWords
and it was actually driving inbounds it
was driving some demos or some
signups then you could prove the concept
there so you could say look let's let's
dive in let's dive into our Google ads
and we can see that these terms like I
don't know if we're providing canar
scheduling software we can see that
we're driving inbounds when folks search
for like cly Alternatives or chili pipe
Alternatives or compared to one versus
competitor 2 or if they search for best
calendar scheduling software or if they
search for best Canada scheduling for
sales teams or whatever our Niche our
ICP is we can say look we've got the
proof these ads are actually converting
capturing that demand and driving
inbounds what if we took that to organic
search we didn't have to pay for every
single click through what if we started
ranking
organically yes it's going to take a bit
more time than paid media because we
can't just stick and AD up and it's live
if we could start gaining organic
traffic and potentially reducing our
cost cost acquisition but also getting
two bites at the Cherry so when someone
does that relevant search when they have
a good level of intent to speak to a
salesp person around our
offer what if we could show up twice
like we have the ad and we have the
organic real estate we've got two hits
like wouldn't that make sense um but a
lot of marketers don't have that luxury
so then usually the leadership pain that
I like to lean on is i' I position
something like look the truth is every
time
a dream client searches for what we do
so in the software world that might be
best X software or software for specific
nich you serve or Compares us to an
alternative or maybe has the problem
that we fix every time they're searching
for that on Google our competitors are
showing up ahead of us like search for
one of these things you'll see our
competitors top 247 they're getting
those click-throughs they're building
that mind share and they're getting
potential leads that we're not so every
time that happens we're missing out so
if that is that something that we feel
is
worthwhile is that something that we
feel we want to tackle that's probably
one of the one of the biggest ones i'
I'd say to leverage um and yeah that's
that's probably the the toughest part of
it getting that leadership Buy in and
then once you've once you've got that
and usually what it takes from my
experience it usually needs someone on
the team that's had experience with
Organic search and believes in the value
because if not a lot of tech companies a
lot of B2B SAS companies will go with
traditional models like you said they'll
higher outbound sales teams they'll go
via paid media it's very rare that folks
unless they're open to SEO they've had
good experience with SEO in the past
that they'll actually opt to it as a
channel just from the marketers that
I've seen just doesn't tend to happen
that much um so that's why I put out so
much content hopefully trying to show
people that there is a better way but
yeah with that aside I mean I'm happy to
to share some kind of actionable tactics
that folks can Implement if that's
useful yeah
cool
so I'm I've got a very simple mind so a
lot of the stuff I share is very
straightforward and like I talked about
earlier from my own pain from the fact
that I've dealt with businesses and
websites that generate kind of poor
quality leads are just not enough if I'm
running an SEO program either myself as
a marketer or for a client I want it to
drive sales pipeline as quick as humanly
possible so one of the most
straightforward ways that you can look
at it let's say you've got a bit of
resource to or a bit of cash to invest
in SEO whatever angle it is fire up a
Google sheet or an Excel sheet quite
literally list out a few columns and one
column might be for the main office that
you want to sell the main software
pieces or Services you want to
sell second column is for the main
niches or industries that you serve best
not any Industries but ones that
historically have sold you've sold well
to have the problem you fixed they
actually want to fix the problem and
they've got cash to invest in it that's
the next one the next column is going to
be for the main problem that you fixed
the main problem hopefully you've done
some custom research you know why folks
what they struggle with why they come to
you to fix and then the other one is
going to be the fourth column is going
to be your main competitors top three
four five competitors that always come
up in sales
schols once you've done that you can
start building out what's called
longtail Comm commercial intent keywords
or I like to call Money keywords AKA
what someone's going to search on Google
when they're ready to speak to a
salesperson around your offer right so
that might be if I go back to a common
example I using like the calendar
scheduling space that might be like your
your competitive terms that you might go
for that will be like a long-term one
you try to rank for might be best
calendar scheduling software or best
calendar scheduling tools or best
calendar scheduling platforms or those
kind of ones those are going to be
competitive you're going to have a lot
of Big Industry players
is those are probably ones you want to
slowly chip away at but the more nich
and specific ones where you drill down
into industry are going to be the ones
that you could see quicker Returns on
and that might be like best calendar
scheduling tool for sales teams or
calendar scheduling for HR teams or
calendar scheduling for recruitment
teams those niches that you
serve and then the competitor ones in
the software space the reason you choose
those is because you can go for
competitor alternative based keywords
and in the calendar scheduling space
that might be HubSpot meeting
Alternatives calendar Alternatives
Revenue hero alternative chili Piper
Alternatives or chili Piper pricing or
chili Piper reviews reason we do this is
because you probably know already when
someone's evaluating B2B software or B2B
service they don't just speak to one one
team or one company and buy they usually
evaluate three or four vendors and a lot
of folks were on the fence before they
decide to take the plunge and and invest
so they'll search for things like
competitor reviews competitor pricing
competitor Alternatives and those are
great way to pos position your
differentiators and driving bounds so
once we've done that and those when
we're making those longtail keywords
we'll run them through like a tool like
H refs or semrush so we can check
they've got a little bit of search
volume but typically these will have low
traffic the more the more nichan
specific ones which is fine because a
mistake with SEO is that you're going
for tons of traffic but there's no
commercial intent behind them there's no
buying intent but these specifically
have buying intent behind them they'll
get less traffic that's great because
they actually result in demos once
you've done that you've made your list
of prioritized
keywords then you want to actually the
next simple thing that you can do is
literally Google the keyword so let's
say one of the keywords was I don't know
calendar scheduling for sales
teams we we type that on Google organic
search we look at the top three organic
non-paid results and then we address the
intent what's page intent page intent is
just looking at the type of page that
Google expects to rank so it could be
that it's a product listicle so it could
be that the top three results are like
the top 10 um calendar scheding software
for sales teams or it could be it's a
landing page to understand what kind of
content ranks so you know what type of
page you need to build and then
essentially you want to my my strategy
here again is straightforward just build
a page that's more helpful more useful
more detailed and comprehensive than
whatever is ranking top organic now so
if someone's got a top 10 list go say
let's go for top 15 um let's assess that
page let's tip typically the way
listicles are built like top 10
alternatives are they position their own
offer as number one but the pit full the
mistakes that are offer made is they
just talk about how great they are their
features and their benefits that kind of
stuff but I'd encourage you to think
about why folks choose you so yeah you
you do a bit of an intro on that
listicle you'll do um you'll share
yourself as position one but then show
your differentiators so maybe have like
a nice comparison table This Is Us
Versus our main competitor this is the
main kind of reasons folks choose us
then here's maybe a client review video
with a happy cut testimonial and then
here's an option to to drive a demo and
then you have the other nine or so
compactors underneath so that that's a
great way to do it and another another
mistake that folks make with SEO
especially in B2B and atas and Tech
websites they spend loads of time either
because their agency's told them to or
they've read something on technical SEO
which is really a waste of time until
you get to websites with thousands of
pages so you can keep it super simple
with your Tech SEO for these kind of
websites like all you really need to do
is once you've established a Target
keyword for the
page so if it was like calendar
scheduling for sales teams then you just
need that within your url so it might be
your domain.com calendar scheduling hyen
for hyen sales hyen teams you need it
within your meta title within your meta
description you want on one H1 a single
H1 for the page heading tag weave it in
the rest of your copy it's pretty much
all you need um you don't need to waste
hours trying to get your website one
second or 01 second quicker you don't
need to mess around with image old tags
do all this BS that a lot of folks
preach on technical SEO get the
foundationals right and you'll be fine
it's more important to have have a
mindset of publishing content so if you
can really exhaust that strategy that I
talked about earlier we fire up that
spreadsheet you list out all your money
keywords you really exhaust it that
bottom of the funnel that mid funnel and
then you have a mindset of publishing
rather than trying to get perfect so you
think this month we're going to go for I
don't know what's realistic maybe we're
going to go for five pages six pages
published and that's going to be our on
our SEO efforts we're going to start
with whatever is going to be kind of the
most likely to drive buying
intent so yeah that's that's what I
recommend especially if you're a startup
or a company with less red tapes you're
non-enterprise you can you can publish
stuff a lot faster you don't have to go
through endless kind of approvals to to
get content out there to get sign offs
and all that good stuff so yeah building
out building out pages to to match that
strategy smart understanding the intent
like what is ranking on Google at the
moment is it a landing page is it a
listicle is it howto is it a Blog
article what is it okay we know that's
the page type we need to then look for
gaps we need to look for gaps what's
ranking now how can we make ours more
helpful Google has a framework called
eat experience expertise Authority trust
and then the other the other superpower
of SEO that you should consider
is not just writing to rank but writing
to resonate and again a lot of stuff
comes back comes back to custom research
so for this specific topic on this page
that we're writing about how can we show
that we really know prospects so if it's
a landing page on an offer how can we
immediately say we understand your
problem we understand the impact of not
fixing it here is why we're positioned
to to solve your problem here's some
proof that we've done it for our
customers here's some answers to your
common questions that often get brought
up on sales schols we're we're handling
objections we're handling questions
here's a YouTube video walk through on
the topic specifically um how can we
really show Google that we're positioned
to address this query but also prospects
that we know what their their world is
like and what you'll find as well is
that you you've probably seen this
yourself but there's a lot of pages that
rank in Google
search but sometimes they're just
written for robots or they're walls of
text they're not designed properly
they're not skimmable they don't really
address what you want to know like
they've got an FAQ section at the bottom
but it doesn't actually answer questions
that you might have on sales cool so
it's a lot of the time thinking like
what do prospects actually care about on
this topic and maybe we need to maybe we
need to sit down with ourselves team
have a coffee have a beer and kind of
thrash it out like what's relevant on
this page what is what is a prospect
going to resonate with and AKA make them
more likely to to take a demo if they
stumble across this piece of content so
that's a few high level
points right uh such great tactics that
You' have broken down for our listeners
uh today Sam um of course uh in my own
experience of we have multiple inbound
lead generation engines running but what
I've seen in my experience is that uh
while we're still figuring out how do we
ensure maximum relevance of the SEO
leads U with a possible business outcome
but the leads that convert they give us
um a better deal size uh uh they because
I think the whole fact is that half of
the sales process is done before uh the
sale actually happens um they've read up
about you they trust you uh you know you
your credibility is established they've
researched you thoroughly uh because you
know obviously there are studies that
say that 70% of B2B buyers they they
start their uh you know buying process
with a Google search so I think those
are the steps that you've already
crossed and by the time they up with you
with a genuine query um the whole point
is that then now you just need to focus
on making the sale happen rather than
making them trust you establish your
credibility on all of that uh which is
not the case when it is a
straightforward paid Outreach that
you're doing because you have to go from
step one I think that's the kind of
education that I try and impart to the
management here when I'm trying to
create strategies uh that uh you know
SEO longterm so the the process is
started and by the time uh you know
there's a lead that comes in you would
have crossed this this mile so hopefully
the gestation of the lead would be lower
uh and we'll be able to make a more U
concrete conversation and therefore a
better uh business there
um okay uh now let's talk about uh you
know what the industry is talking about
which is artificial intelligence now of
course with the Advent of tools like
chat GPT Gemini and so many gen tools
that are popping up day in and day out
nowadays uh it just seems that content
creation and even website development
and even managing like an SEO strategy
it's just become far more uh I would say
automated um you know a single person's
job very straightforward that's what
it's claiming out to be right so um how
do you foresee this Evolution and uh how
you are leveraging all these
developments uh at for yourself and for
your
clients yeah yeah yeah sure so I suppose
there's a few angles like one is that
Google have rolled out fairly recently
AI overviews so for anyone not that's
not familiar for some search queries
when you search something on Google
above the fold before you scroll Google
will give an instant automated answer
that response so
that's one thing to consider that that's
that's now rolled out and that takes up
a decent amount of real estate for some
Google searches now the other thing is
should we be using AI as part of our SEO
process well possibly possibly not um
where we found some good and some
terrible use cases especially in kind of
a lot of my line of workers with B2B and
SAS companies
is where things go pretty pear-shaped is
where you just rely on it to churn out a
ton of content so maybe you established
like these are a bunch of commercial or
money keywords that we think are going
to be really useful for us to start
ranking for and we've established that
these kind of pages are going to be the
ones that we need to build out so let's
kind of type in some very brief outlines
into a ai2 be it chat GPT or similar and
let's just get this content Churn it out
stick it on a a Blog article publish it
to our website and get a load of pages
ranking and the truth is you might get
you might see a ton of traffic you might
see some rankings you might see some
upticks I've I've tried some of this
stuff and some pages have ranked quite
well but then with the recent helpful
content a lot of it been penalized so a
lot of it's gone down we've done some of
this stuff just for experiment sake um
and the other thing to consider is even
if even if it does rank if someone
search for something that's relevant to
your offer and again like I said they
have that kind of intent they want to
book a demo or speak to sers if they've
landed on your page and it reads stuff
like turbocharge your revenues today our
allinone Wizardry platform that it's all
dancing all sing like it's here to
tackle every Challenge and every need
that you may ever have and it just reads
like this isn't actually how someone
would talk like this literally sounds
like a crazy robot I mean for me know
for for me I know it would repel me and
I can imagine for a decent amount of
prospects it would as well it's like I'm
guilty I've used words like
to I think to use it like every now and
then it's okay but it's like if they're
consisting like these really long words
that just don't quite add up and it
almost reads like it's someone is I
don't know down six Red Bulls and like
started typing this on a craze
type you can almost I mean it's like
LinkedIn comments as well you can see
the ones that are written by Ai and just
churned out with this this kind of
wording so it's going to put a decent
amount of prospects off even if it does
rank they'll they'll sus it out like
folks aren't stupid they can tell if
you've if you've turned out content from
a robot and you're not actually
resonating with them so you might rank
but you're probably not going to
resonate or convert or worse you might
rank for a little bit like some of the
experiments I've ran and then when
Google has its next content update
related to helpful content or similar
you might see everything go crashing
down and then it might take you a long
time to get those pages recued and back
up to where they want to be but you good
use cases are using it as a framework so
establishing right we need to make these
Pages maybe I use an AI tool to help me
create the outline like so it builds out
I don't know maybe helps me with the Met
tit description helps me with some of
the heading tags H1 H2 Etc builds out a
rough Foundation gives me some bullet
points to
consider and now I can pass this to one
of my writers or I can go ahead and
write it myself and I've got like a a
nice layered Foundation there but I'm
not just asking yet to pump out all my
content and then hoping for the
best
awesome Sam thank you so much I think uh
you've shared so many insights and
learning and practical advises practical
methods of doing it uh I think the
conversation can keep going on but uh
you know um we we would like to take a
break over here with this conversation
and I think uh I can't thank you enough
for ensuring that you know like promised
this be this has been completely action
oriented and we're not talking 30,000 ft
and uh we actually trying to share the
action points that marketers could take
in creating a comprehensive website and
even SEO strategy before we conclude I
just have this practice of adding one
light question at the end of the podcast
uh just for our listeners to know the
other side of our uh speakers and um you
know so my question to you is if you
could have the powers of any marketing
superhero let's assume there is one that
exists uh who would it be and uh maybe
what would you call it and what would
you do with those
Powers oh I've got one weirdly so one
one of my funny crazy SEO video series
that I've done on LinkedIn and I think
it's on our YouTube as well it's called
SEO man so every now and then I just
dress up in a funny Superman costume
called SEO man and
basically people laugh at me on the
street yeah exactly people laugh at me
on the street and I'll sometimes go up
and give give SEO tips and ideas and
things like that so that's probably one
that's that's quite relevant I I'll send
you a one of the videos we'll send you
one of the memes later
on
awesome uh that would indeed be a very
remarkable a superpow because I think
what we've spoken about today it would
really resonate with that I would want
love to have one so I I hope this SEO
man can generate more such avatars and
there can be one in each team that one
one could hire that would really be
helpful okay Sam thank you again thanks
a lot for joining us today and making
this a very very enlightening
conversation and there we have it I hope
you found this episode of use and if you
haven't yet why not join thousands of
Legends enjoy my weekday newsletter for
unusual B2B marketing ideas
SEO examples and case studies as well as
fresh podcast updates head over to
Breaking bb.com hit that newsletter tab
to get stuck in and with that I should
catch you on the next one cheers
[Music]